6/24/22

Perhaps the worst type of hopelessness is *social* hopelessness, in which one thinks "I will have no friends or
lovers because I am not lovable/attractive/etc."

What makes the above statement hopeless is that it frames oneself in a context where you are being chosen
by a group of choosers and judgers. This therefore makes you feel confidence and esteem only when 
there are obvious signs that you are chosen. The issue is that daily interaction does not show these
obvious signs of being chosen. Usually it is something much more vague. You invite someone over
and they ask "is anyone else going to be there?" You say no and then they cancel. Opposite to what it may seem,
this is not a rejection of you. Rather, it is indicative of one's multiple preferences and risk aversion (just to
name two). 

Maybe they're nervous in one on one interactions, maybe they're not sure if they *really* like you and don't want
to waste their time, and maybe they have other things planned and they don't know you that well and other people
being there is a type of insurance. Infinite possibilities really.

However, under the mental model of "if others like me, they will unambiguously choose me", the event above becomes
interpretted as an unambiguous rejection. Yet another example of how a limited model can effect how we take in information!


Now, the mental model also puts the individual in a powerless state. The group is choosing, and the individual has
nothing to do other than arrive at the contest and be judged. It's this reason why obsession over looks
and other immutable characteristics comes into being. Since the minds of the judgers already has premade 
preferences, your acceptability is already determined before you step in the ring; just compare yourself
with previous persons that are picked!

What the model makes us forget is that social interaction IS NOT a "show up, get judged, get accepted or rejected"
type of game. Social interaction is always with two or more players where ALL players show up. Moreover, there is 
no power or judgement asymmetry. Both are acting with each other. Both are choosing and acting simultaneously.

This may seem obvious, but the changes in behavior and attitude are dramatic.
If the model is actually "if I show up in a certain way, they will ambiguously be interested in me, or not!",
this opens the door for both attention to detail & context, but also interaction.
The relationship that can be made is created by all parties involved, and not by some arbiter of sociability.
Both you and the other person(s) are noticing what is happening in the interaction, noticing the dynamics, 
noticing who laughs at what, noticing their responses to things. Moreover, both people are choosing their
reactions and expressions to what the other person says.

Questions that therefore come up are:
"How do I want to express myself to this person?"
"Given what they just said, how will I change this expression?"
"What important thing can I say to compliment their expression?"
"What do I like or dislike about what they said?"
"What questions can I ask that would reveal if I really like this person?"
"What is their response to my expressions?"
"What reasons might there be for these reactions?"
etc etc

Compare this to the questions that you'd ask with the model of "if they like me, they will unambiguously choose me?":
"How fast will they accept or reject me?"
"Do I fit their preferences?"
And that's about it.

To me atleast, it's clear which is the better way to do things.

Also, as I wrote before, there's a sense of foreknowledge on the person being judged if they will be chosen or not.
And of course, this is deadly if the person already believes they will be rejected and that they have nothing
to offer. At that point, it's a rigged game! If you come in with "I have nothing to offer", people will take you at your word.
Rarely if ever is pity rewarded with attention or love.
