There's a fly in the sexually progressive ointment. A fly that's getting bigger and bigger.
This is a fly that supports the disconnection and confusion that we have in the modern day.
The fly is sexual liberalization.

---

The sexual revoluation occured in a particular context: one of stable social systems,
high social capital, and informal institutions of sociability, community, and group interest.
At the time, freedom was a new resource in surplus. Thanks to the effciency of industrialization,
along with material wealth famously procured after the Second World War, a generation was raised
with the expansion of freedom, both in ideology and in leisure. This generation then asked itself
a burning question: "What about sex?"

In contrast to today, "sex" was not merely a mechanical process between two or more people
which brought plenty of pleasure to the individuals involved. Rather, given the norms
and values of the generation that came before, sex was very much a child of the romantic era.
Sex was in the realm of the sacred, of the poetic expression between those involved. It was
freedom in the context of the other.

Of course, this "old" sex was drenched in judgement and orthodoxy. The sacredness in the sexual
expression was not given free reign in the romantic context. There was a procedure and the
freedom that could be expressed was carefully constructed. This is okay, that is not.

The idealism of the Sexual Revolution was the following: What if we could remove the 
boundaries of sex and increase the freedom (and creativity) of the act IN ORDER to increase
our exposure to the sacred? Additional interest in spirituality, music, and psychedelic drugs
was not an accident here, either. The goal was increase their exposure to the sacred which the previous
generations barred them from, for reason they did not understand.

---

"Imagine a world in which you could love everyone? Where the love could increase infinitely?
Where we would have the freedom to express ourselves fully with no reservation? What if there
were no orthodoxy?"

---

The impulses and vision was an admirable one, however sophmoric and naive it may have been. It is, then, 
a tragedy to see what this movement has paved the way towards: the situation we're in now.

---

What seems to have happened is liberalization has taken over the revolution. The "free love" of the past
was made in a certain context, and that context has changed. Social ties weakened, people became more 
solitary, and impersonal markets have replaced the communal spaces in which society had always rested on.
As industrialization improved, technology became the cheaper substitute for the old, decaying
informal institutions.

Within this new context, everything becomes commodity, and technology becomes the means of exchange.
Especially the sacred form of pleasure and interconnectivity of sex and sexuality. However,
stripped from its relational and reciprocal core, sex becomes a trade between two people,
expressed in a mechanical excercise. Sex has always had with it particular secondary gains such as
the increase in social status or pride, however with sex's liberalization, this status seeking has
become one of the primary gains. Sexuality is partaken less due to legitimate desire or love, and rather
due to social pressures and public conceptions of the worth of individuals. This, of course, flies in
the face of ideals of exclusivity and specialness with which romantic sex is presumed to be a part of.
In other words, it is difficult to graciously accept a love letter (love) written on what is now used as 
waste paper (liberalized sex).

A result of the interplay of these factors is the newly schizophrenic experience of individuals. On 
the one hand, there is an personal desire to be seen and loved and to love in this newly lonely and
desolate social environment. On the other, there is a social desire to make one's value be known
through the successful marketization and trading of sex and sexual experience, regardless of 
romantic involvement. Virginity was once the ideal of the day, and now it is losing one's virginity.

With the liberalization of sex comes the objectification and marketization of human beings.
Taking a while to lose one's virginity is a sign of some fault with the product, rather than
a reflection of the more difficult social context or a relfection of one's deeply held values.
Oddly, one's past sexual experience is what determines one's likelihood of sexual experiences
in the present and future. Moreover, as high casual sexual experience is the new ideal for Man,
this discounts personal attachment or interest between people and instead raises the value of 
attributes which everyone, not just the couple involved, can percieve. One's choice for a partner
becomes less of choosing someone that is right for the individual, and instead is a choice of
the type relationship one will have with the rest of society, and the partner will be the declaration
of that relationship. Privacy is lost. One's choice is now for everyone else to approve of.

The immediate manifestation of this is physical characteristics being one of the main criteria
used as the deciding factor in partnerships. However superficial the pretense may be, due to the
pressure of having sex as soon as possible, the lack of connection or mutual interest is ignored,
and the well of sexuality is already tapped into. Despite our attempts to the contrary, the sacredness
and esoteric nature of sex is still there, and the experience ties a knot of attachment towards 
a couple, regardless of their actual love towards one another. Sex, in this case, binds a relationship
together rather than being an expression of the relationship that is already there. The result is 
confusion between parties. There is romance without interest, and the sexual realm becomes the 
sole source of connection between the couple.

The liberalization of sex has human beings become products in ways contrary to our ideals. They are
given romantic attention due to their secondary, superficial characteristics instead of their deservingness
or individuality. The result is furthering the sense of isolation, along with resentment towards (often) the 
other sex because both sides recognize the coldness with which they are judged and the superficial values 
placed on them. Of course, this doesn't remove the desire to be truly seen by another; therefore, there is 
a sense of desperateness attached to that same object of resentment. The other outcome of sex's liberalization
is a result of the social pressure towards sexual experience: sex is had and expressed despite it not being the
true wishes of the individual. Again, this leads people rife with confusion. People go to social events 
(centered around sex) with unclear goals and desires. Part of them wants the liberation and love of 
authentic sexual experience, and another wants the social belonging of sexual success. Both feed the inherent
desire for belonging which modern society does not give, yet both desires are mutual exclusive. To be a consumer
or producer of a successful sex product is to be irreovacably and completely disconnected from the deeper 
relational yearnings. This disconnection proves increasingly more distressing, which is why the consumption of substances
like alcohol are taken to reduce this cognitive disonance. It all comes to a head, however, the night after
in which one or more parties feel used, alone, and cold. Is it any wonder after all? 

The tragedy is that the promise of sex was not given to that individual. Perhaps there is social gain, but that is 
at the cost of one's loss of dignity and autonomy. Given the assumption that what society says is correct, 
the individual does not learn that it is a rigged game and continues the cycle of social event -> inebration -> sex -> regret,
with an increasing vacuous sensation which infects their own sense of self, the world, and others.

Inkeeping with the industrial successes of the 20th century, this becomes a factory of alienation.

There are some who adapt to the circumstance. These people live their days and nights focusing on becoming sexual entrepreneurs,
filled with the same tropes of hustle, social media, and optimization as seen anywhere else in the economy. Due to their
own experiences, they have learned the lesson society has indirectly taught them: there is nothing more to other people other
than the value I can get from them by virtue of their socially valuable characteristics. These individuals stalk the streets, 
wearing clothes they don't like, saying things they don't mean, and meeting people they are not interested in. They become 
human products that justify their existence based on how much of themselves can be bought or sold, not to mention
how widely those transactions can occur. In the end, they conceptualize the sacredness of sex as the sacredness of themselves
which can only be appreciated through the admiration of anonymous others.

And of course, there are those who pave their own way. They have realized that to have a life and a relationship they enjoy--
to experience the sacredness which sex can provide--they must sacrifice the satisfaction of society to the satisfaction
of their own values and to the satisfaction of those close to them. These are, in the end, the true individuals: choosing
belonging and commitments which they believe are (interpersonal) reflections of their innermost selves. Moreover, the way in which these
individuals react with their partners is in the enlightened sexualities which the sexual revolution has rightly expressed. 
It is in these contexts that sexuality is enfused with creativity, expression, and connection. While not ideal, the 
society that they create is one far better and more compatible with the human spirit than the atomized marketization so prevelant
today: a society of self contained, intraconnected spheres of influence. When not inside one of these spheres, it is difficult 
enter. Once you have found your place, however, you are there for good.

In the end, it is up to us to not fall under the standards of our society, and instead holdfast to prioritizing individuality,
expression

---------

Final note about men: I have tried to remain as unisex as possible, which I will now break. Men face particular advantages in this
sexual liberalized structure. As both investigation and common sense demonstrate, men are more visual than women. This does not
mean that men are not capable of the same level of attachment or love as women, but rather that certain superficial characteristics
can hold their attention for longer than women. The result is men being the harbingers of the value of women, as far as sexuality goes.
Attention will go to the woman with the most pronounced expression of the fashions of the day, which means that
the women will change their bodies and mannerisms in such a way to appease men, to the disadvantage of their own
individuality being realized. If my analysis is correct, everyone loses in this context, but women lose relative to men.

This implies a particular responsibility on men where he can decide what woman he will spend most of
his time paying attention to. In other words, men as the consumer can vote with his wallet, and his vote could easily
go towards more fuller expressions of individuality, autonomy, and well-roundedness. Such decisions will improve the experience
of both men and women. 

Importantly, informal social institutions of the past mediated social decisions like these. As these institutions existed before,
they can always be created again.

Of course, women have responded to the male pressures with equal force: many women have opted out of the popular forms of dating
seen today, with greater expectations and standards than were had before. I claim that these higher expectations are not just
due to the improvements of personal freedom and material wealth, but also as a reaction to their commodification which men are
allowed to take advantage of. 
