The Queen has died today. 70+ year reign, and continuation of the English Royal Family bloodline.

I cannot speak too much about her career and much less about the history of England as she was the Queen,
however, her death to me marks one of the last great examples of "the Event". It's likely that we will have
much less examples of the Event in the remainder of the 21st Century, and the Queen herself was the touchstone
of the "old world" which was full of Events and Eventful People. We are officially in a new generation, and a
new historical moment.

What do I mean by "Event"?

An Event is a moment in which marks some type of socially significant change to the status quo that 
the common people are invested in. The Queen's death marks the socially significant change of the the UK Monarchy,
and its significance is doubled by the fact that the Queen's reign has laster for so long. Her presence was one which
was taken for granted and preferred by the majority of the people under her rule. Events are significant and infrequent.
Moreover, the common person doesn't just like her, they are invested in her. Many have had some sort of parasocial
relationship with her since they have been born, and her presence in the country was expected and looked forward to.
Moreover, much knowledge is had towards this very important eventful person, especially about the Queen's family
conflicts.

The Eventful person captures our attention and our imagination. They are as if a family member, and the greiving with which 
is followed by their passing demonstrates this.

Importantly, what seperates an Eventful person is that they are eventful to not just you or your family as is a personal
family member. No, they are eventful to hundreds and thousands more. The number of relationships had is immense. And when 
the Eventful pass on, the loss is felt in all that were invested--with that, a certain level of social connection and catharsis
pervades the populace. Different people who've never spoken or met suddenly feel the stranger as a brother or sister
amidst the bevy of change.

- - -

This eventfulness is going away.

Likely, the Queen's death will lose it's emotional luster for most involved. While still an Event, it will be a short one.
When Ukraine was invaded by Russia, enthusiasm was equally short lived. Our communications technology give us access
to a deluge of information. Consistent with our psychology, an intense, unceasing stream of stimuli will soon be
dulled and liquidated from our attention. Gone are the days when the only news one would recieve are the daily newspapers
in which events could be digested and reflected upon. Today we are given a thousand newspapers every second we're alive.

With this increase of information, fragmentation has followed. A citizen's culture and exposure to the world will vary
wildly to his neighbor a few hundred feet away. There is no standardization of information, and the saturation of voices
has allowed for an audience that is intensly specialized in one voice out of the many. Undoubtedly, this situation allows
for the pursuit of idiosyncratic and personal interests--interests which do not need the support of a physical community
to be realized. To those that use the technology in that way, it is of immense benefit. Yet, to me, there is something 
that is lost in the sharing of standardized information. We are no longer experiencing that connective tissue between 
individuals. And we no longer share when those connective tissues suddenly pass away or change. Disasters are not public
anymore. Change is not shared. Everything happens within the monologue of one's own mind.

Fragmentation has, in the bad times, produced polarization. Not only is your culture different from your neighbor,
you are also taught that your neighbor is fundamentally incapable of understanding you and what you care about. Eventful
people are no longer universal agents, but agents of seperation. When Donald Trump dies, one half will be cheering, the 
other crying, and the emotions of both will increase the ire of both.

Lastly, incredulity, and, later, pessimism towards tradition further prevent Events from even taking place.
An Event is something changing to a previously taken for granted thing. Today, we have a culture dedicated to unraveling
all which is taken for granted. These are the revisors of the past. Their reasons are valid, and their perspective can
be necessary. However, in destroying tradition, we destroy the ground under our feet which we share with those
around us. An institutional change will have no impact if the institution was born ten years ago.

- - -

In the end, we have the deluge of voices, fragmented cultures, polarization, and lack of connection to the imaginaries which
bind a people together. The result is a social emptiness and lack of consistency in our experience of our society and
the people around us. THe result is less powerful Events, a reduction in Eventful people, and more disconnection.

How *well* will we survive in this future of technology and abundance if the only voice we hear is that inside our own heads?
